Hey, welcome back.
So in the last few lessons, we've been taking a deeper dive into the random number generation and how
to write a decent test to force us to implement that random number generation.
So now I think we can get back into implementing more of the general rules of the game.
So if you recall in the original guessing game that we wrote, we had a rule.
I think that said something like you only get four guesses and then regardless of whether you got the
number or not.
The game is over.
So let's implement that rule in a test and see what that might look like.
So let's see here.
I'm just going to create another test.
Public void.
How about we test?
For.
Wrong.
Guesses.
All right.
So and I'm going to minimize this.
All right, so we just want to make four wrong guesses, right?
So we already know the easiest way probably to do that is just to guess negative numbers.
So let's see what that might look like.
So if we access the game field game, guess and then we just guess for negative numbers, then we could
use the same negative number four times.
I don't think it really matters.
So we'll do negative three.
And then I'm just going to duplicate that.
Four times.
Now we need an assertion, though, I think I would want to assert that on this fourth wrong, guess
we're going to get back some message that'll tell us not only that we didn't get it, but we had four
tries or something like that.
So I think what we'd want to do in this case is to capture the output from this fourth one into a string
variable because remember, this guest's method returns the string.
So with my cursor on this line, I'm going to do a command option v now because I have four, I have
this line duplicated four times or three other times the ID is asking me if I want to replace just this
occurrence, which yes, I only want this one.
All right.
And I guess I will.
What did I call this before?
Uh, message?
OK, I guess I'll call it message again just to be consistent.
And now I can make an assertion assert.
Now, when we were getting it wrong before we just asserted that we would get this message, you didn't
get it.
So now maybe we want to assert that in addition to it saying you didn't get it.
Maybe we'll tack on you didn't get it and you had four tries.
The game is over something like that.
I don't know.
It doesn't really matter.
So here, Ella, a copy this text as a starting point.
So.
You didn't get it.
And you've had four tries.
Game over.
How about that?
And then we'll compare that to the actual message that we receive.
OK, now I know this message is a little different from what we had in the original.
It doesn't matter.
I don't feel like going back to that project.
We can make it this close enough.
All right.
So let's run all of the tests.
So we'll come up to the top here and run.
All right.
So we have one failing test and it's this one right here.
You didn't get it and you've had four tries game over.
The actual that we got there was you didn't get it.
All right.
So what's the easiest thing we can do to get this test passing without hopefully breaking any of the
other tests?
So let's go look at the actual code here.
All right, so currently we're passing in negative number and calling this method four times, and each
time we simply compare the number, we're passing in to the actual random number.
And if they don't match, then we return.
You didn't get it.
So one thing I can see is it looks like we need to track the number of times that the guest's method
is being called.
So we certainly could use a variable to count the number of times that the gas method is being called.
Now this is a good opportunity to remind you of the idea of scope of variables.
So let us consider what might happen if we were to create a variable here.
And I don't know what will do, we want to call this variable.
I don't know for now, I'm just going to call it counter now if we have this variable counter and we
declare it inside of the guests method.
What happens every time that we call the guest method?
This variable will be reset to zero.
So we don't want this variable to be a local variable inside of this guest's method.
It has to be outside of the guests method so that whatever value it's tracking will be retained in between
calls to the guests method.
Does that make sense?
All right.
So rather than doing it that way, let's just introduce another field by default.
I pretty much always make my fields private.
We can't make this final because it needs to be changed every time the guest method is called in.
Variables that are final can only be initialized one time and then never changed again.
So we don't want it to be final.
It will be an integer.
And for right now, I'm just going to call it counter and I will go ahead and initialize it to zero.
And so now I think let's see what happens if we simply increment this counter every time the guest method
is called and we are going to need some logic here.
We're going to need to say something like if counter is for, maybe then return that message that we
were looking for.
Perhaps.
So let's let's see what that might look like if counter equals four.
Then return, and then I'm going to just go over to our test here, and I'm just going to grab this
entire message here, then jump back into the guest's method again and we'll just paste this whole entire
thing.
So if the counter is for, then return this message so kind of implied here is else.
Now, I'm not putting an else here, but it's almost implied otherwise.
Just do this.
OK.
So these two lines cannot both run right.
If this is true, then this is going to happen.
And because of this return statement, here we are short circuiting line 14 and simply returning this.
Now I will take this opportunity to state that there are some good recommendations in what are called
best practices for coding that would suggest that you may want to try avoiding having multiple return
statements in a method.
And there are alternative and arguably better ways of doing this than to have these two return statements
here.
And perhaps we will evolve our code to get to that.
But for right now, in keeping somewhat with the idea of initially doing the minimal thing that you
can think of to get the test to pass, I'm going to just leave it like this for right now and see what
happens.
OK, so now let's just run this thing again and see what happens.
OK, so all of the tests are now passing, so that works now.
Is that good enough?
So let's jump back over to the test class.
All right, so test for wrong guesses results in us getting this message here.
Now what happens if we make three wrong guesses and then our fourth one is actually correct?
In that case, we probably shouldn't see this message, right?
So let's let's make that.
Let's make that scenario, and I'm going to start by just copying this, I suppose.
And pasting that test.
How about three?
Wrong guesses.
And one.
Correct.
All right.
So three wrong guesses and now to do the correct thing, though, we'll have to ask the game engine
what is the correct one, right?
So we'll create an integer, I don't know.
Correct answer equals game, get random number and then we will use the correct answer here on our final
guess.
Like so?
All right.
So that should be the right answer.
And now what do we expect here?
Let's see.
So when we are doing it correctly, we do expect to just receive you got it.
I think that's fine.
I think let's just stick with that.
We don't need to acknowledge that you it took you four guesses just yet, although I think in the previous
implementation, we did actually show how many guesses it took or something like that, right?
So we'll we'll come back and we'll revise this now that I'm remembering that we did have it implemented
in that way, and that was kind of nice.
But let's start off with just this, I suppose.
So if you made three wrong guesses, followed by one correct guess, let's just say.
You got it for let's start off with that, and we'll refactor this test to add in the, you know, showing
how many guesses it took and all of that.
All right.
You got it.
So now let's run all of the tests and we should see this fail, presumably.
All right.
There it is.
There's our failing test.
You got it.
All right.
So now let's jump over here and see what it's going to take for us to to get this one right.
So our current logic just blindly says, if you have guessed four times, then just show this message.
So now we know this isn't quite good enough.
This logic isn't good enough, right?
So let's see.
There are a few things we could do here.
All right.
So I don't know.
We could have some logic that says something like if counter equals four and guessed number equals,
get random number, then we return.
You got it.
However, we already have this line here that we know is working, so maybe we could say the opposite.
If counter equals four and guessed number is not equal to get random number.
Then we do what we're already doing here.
And then maybe an else.
Yeah, let's just see a few different scenarios here and see what they look like, and I'll copy all
of this.
Guest, no, not equal to get random, no.
Then we return all of this now, actually, so let's just run this.
This might be enough right here.
Let's just run all the tests again and see what we get.
Huh.
Interesting.
So that right there makes all of our tests pass.
Now, one of the interesting things about coding with TDD is, and I don't know that all TDD practitioners
will agree with me on this, but what I find is that it is an odd way to code in some respects because
if you're doing it strictly where you're just trying to implement what you think might be the simplest
thing you could do in the code to get the code to pass, then sometimes that results in you writing
code that you yourself might not have intentionally wanted to write.
Yet it does actually make the test pass right?
And I'm saying this because this approach isn't something that I would naturally want to do, to be
perfectly honest with you.
And I'm inclined to write more tests to force myself to evolve this code to be what I would consider
to be a bit more elegant.
I feel like there is some potential sort of duplication, if you will, in a couple of spots here.
And I don't like the fact that I have to return statements in this method.
I'd like to kind of get away from that, but I don't necessarily feel that I have tests that are forcing
me to do something different here yet.
Right?
So the onus is on me to come up with tests that would force me and justify me coming in here and spending
more brainpower to transform this code into what I would think is more elegant than I think it currently
is.
But I can't quite justify doing that yet.
Apparently, this is good enough for right now, so let's just carry on and see what else we can come
up with here.
All right.
So I'm going to jump back over.
So test three wrong guesses and one correct?
Oh well, I can already see another another scenario here.
So, OK, let's see what happens if we test two wrong guesses and one correct right?
Let's see what that would look like.
Let's see how that would behave.
All right.
So I will start off by copying this again paste test.
Two wrong guesses and one correct, and I guess I can just delete one of these, so there are my two
wrong guesses, and then here comes my correct one.
All right, so let's run all the tests again.
OK, well, that works.
All right.
Yeah, that that works.
So at this point, I'm not even doing enough analysis myself.
It's almost like because of TDD, the coding is almost sort of run on autopilot at this point.
So I'm I myself am not doing a deep level of analysis of the code that we have in the in the game engine
here.
I'm just doing the bare minimum with a focus on the one test, and it just so happens that all of that
code is making these tests pass, right?
I might not have even thought that this would have worked to this point so far, but it is so far right.
All right.
So let's see what else.
I'm not sure that I even need to have another scenario here.
Test one wrong guess because we've got Test one correct.
We've got Test three wrong and one correct.
We've got Test two wrong and one correct.
I'm pretty confident that tests one wrong and one correct is going to work as well.
So let me minimize this, and let's just look real quick here and see, do we have any unnecessary amount
of duplication that needs to be refactored?
I don't think we do.
But let's just check real quick here.
So of course, we've got these duplicate lines here where we're making three wrong guesses and and again,
three wrong guesses.
However, I am not inclined to refactor these because this is very explicit, like the test itself is
like this one.
Here is what happens when we have four wrong guesses.
So we I kind of want to see explicitly.
Here's wrong guess one wrong guess to three and then four, right?
I want to see that explicitly.
Same thing here.
The whole premise of this test is what happens if you have three wrong guesses and one correct.
So if I were to somehow refactor these three wrong guesses and these three wrong guesses, for example,
I could extract the method.
In fact, I'll show you what that would look like.
I can select these three calls here, these three lines, and then do a command option em four method.
And that will allow me to extract a method here.
And then I can name this method like, I don't know, make three wrong guesses.
And now it's ask me, do I want to replace this occurrence everywhere in the code, wherever it sees
that I have three wrong guesses like this, I can go ahead and replace those.
All right, so here's the new method that it just extracted.
And now it replaced those three calls with this one thing here make three wrong guesses.
And here's another one make three wrong guesses.
Now it is clear what's happening.
It's definitely clear it's not hurting anything.
In fact, here let's let's just run all the tests.
Again, you'll see that this didn't break anything most likely.
OK.
So, yeah, we didn't break anything by doing that refactoring.
But I'm not super comfortable that we really added a ton of value either.
Maybe.
I mean, it's arguable, right?
Maybe, maybe you do what you want to do there.
On the one hand, it is easy to read.
OK.
Make three wrong guesses, right?
Versus seeing the three explicit calls.
But for me, I don't think this method name make three wrong guesses is bringing that much more clarity
to anything.
I will say, though, that there may me extracting this out into a method and then naming it in a good
clear name like make three wrong guesses.
This is part of a concept called self documenting code.
So you may see a lot of programmers who like to use a lot of comments like they'll say, make three
wrong guesses something like that, right?
And then they'll have a space, and then they'll do the rest of the guesses or whatever.
And, you know, maybe there's nothing much wrong with that.
But my preference and I would recommend this to any programmer is I'd often prefer to extract the method
and then name that method something very meaningful, like make three wrong guesses rather than litter
my code with potentially too many comments.
And one of the reasons for that is because comments have a tendency to eventually, over time, fall
out of sync with the code that they are actually commenting.
Whereas method names have a harder time of getting out of sync with whatever it is that they are doing
so, if you were inclined to at least make a comment that.
These are your three wrong guesses.
It might be better in some cases to extract a method name out of those lines of code and then just call
that method.
Something along the lines of whatever your comment might have been.
OK, so let me undo the refactoring here, right?
So I've undone the refactoring.
So just to be really clear.
So you might have been inclined to just say, make three wrong guesses right here and then you might
do it again here.
And in that case, yeah, I don't know.
Maybe it's maybe it's arguably better to just extract the method and call it make three wrong guesses
or something like that.
That's a judgment call.
I don't want to say absolutely you should have.
You should or should not extract the call.
I just want to add to your toolbox so that you are aware of some options there.
All right.
I'm going to get rid of that particular comment, though.
So I don't know.
Maybe we do go ahead and refactor these tests, though, to incorporate the count of wrong guesses or
how many tries it took to guess the right number.
So let's see here if we go back up to the top.
Maybe we want to say more than you got it.
Maybe we want to say you got it in X tries, right?
Let's see what that might look like.
You got it in one try.
In this particular case, you got it in one try.
So let's just rerun all the tests, and obviously we're going to see that fail.
All right.
Oh, we got to failing, in fact.
Oh, interesting.
Oh our no.
Our random number generator only got nine out of 10.
Hmm.
That is interesting.
Now, I am confident the reason for this is because we probably just hit some little edge scenario where
the random number generator just by a fluke or whatever, just wasn't quite random enough.
My guess is the easiest thing to do to help that out is to increase this number, and we may want to
go ahead and just bring this number back up to like 100.
That's where I started from.
We ended up at 50 because I was trying to be a little more conservative than and do it only as much
as I thought we absolutely needed to.
But I I'm pretty confident that we got this nine out of 10 here because in this one particular case,
even 50 times wasn't quite enough.
So I'm OK to just make that 100, and then I'll be even more confident.
Now we want to be careful with tests like this.
By the way, this test, if even after 100, we might run all these tests many, many more times and
see that it still fails once in a while.
That could be a strong indication that this test is a little fragile, and we really want to be careful
with fragile tests because in the professional world, when you write a test like this that might be
capable of being somewhat fragile once in a while, it becomes almost a thing where it's the boy who
cried wolf.
If a fragile test is capable of breaking a little too often, people stop paying attention to it, and
they may be inclined to just shut up that test, which may or may not be a good idea, right?
So they might decide to put a.
Disabled on it, right, and then just leave it disabled, which is usually not a great thing to do.
Usually, instead of doing that, you want to really address, well, what is it about the test that's
making it fragile and can we harden it so that it won't be so fragile, right?
So you want to look out for fragile tests?
But I am pretty confident that if we go ahead and increase this to 100, it won't be fragile now.
Doing so also will cause the test to take longer to run, though I think we're talking still milliseconds
here.
So in the grand scheme of things, I don't think it's really going to matter too much, but these are
all things that we really have to consider.
All right.
So one more time, I'm just going to run all the tests now that I just made that one little change here.
And now we only have one failing test.
One of the thing to, by the way, I mentioned in another lesson about the concept of magic numbers.
This definitely is a magic number.
It represents the number of times we think we need to rerun the guessing game to validate that our random
number generation is good and hitting all numbers between one and 10.
So, you know, we might want to refactor this.
By introducing a constant.
And calling it something I don't know what we want to call it.
Maybe.
Game underscore Reid tries.
Or maybe game.
Rand randomness, Reid tries.
I don't know.
Something like that.
And now we can just change that number right up here as a as a constant.
So that's something worth considering.
All right now going to the contest here, though.
All right.
So we were now expecting you got it in one try and we got it.
And instead, we only got you.
Got it.
All right.
So let's see here.
Let's jump into this guest's method.
All right.
So the only place where we're returning the string you got it is right here, so potentially the easiest
thing to do would be to just change the string to say you got it in one try.
Now we already know that's going to cause a bunch of other things to break, presumably.
But let's just see.
So you got it in one try.
Oops.
Try just like that.
All right, so let's rerun everything and see what happens.
Yeah.
All right.
So that broke three other tests.
So the three other tests are now expecting that you just got you got it.
And instead, we, you know, we're now passing.
You got it in one try.
So let's go look at these tests and see what is the appropriate thing to do here.
So in this particular test, we're now doing tests to run guesses and one correct so that would be three
tries, right?
So really, this one should now be saying you got it in.
Three tries.
Right?
That's what that should be doing.
So let's run this again, and we'll just address these one at a time.
All right, so we still have three failing tests.
All right, so now we have to actually really do some real coding to figure out how to insert this number
and that word try or tries, right?
So let's jump back over here.
So I think now the easiest thing to do is to do the real coding.
Now this number here you got it in one try.
One thing I'm inclined to do.
First off, I think, is to extract this string into its own variable.
And I'll show you why in just a moment, someone to select all of that and then I'm going to do a command
option V and maybe I'm going to call this.
I don't know.
Winning message.
And I'm just using MzGee here.
All right.
Now maybe what I want to do is to use a formatted string here so I could use the string dot format method,
for example.
And that way I can replace this one with the value of that counter, for example.
All right.
So let's see what that might look like if I do something like string dot format.
Do you remember this method?
It's similar to the print f or format method, right?
Except instead of printing something out on the console.
It just generates a formatted string, which we will then capture in this string object here.
So string that format.
We closed that off, and then instead of hard coding this number, we can do a percent de.
And then we can pass in the value of the counter, right?
So that might give us.
You got it in X tries, right?
You got it in one try, for example.
Let's see if that gets us any closer.
So I'm rerunning all the tests now.
I still got three failing tests, however.
Look at this one.
This first one that we're looking at here is very close now.
You got it in three tries.
OK, let's see.
How about this next one?
Now this one's still pretty broken.
You got it in.
So we'll have to revise that, but we'll come back to it.
And then this one, you got it in one try.
You got it in one.
You got it.
Oh, OK.
So I've got a problem here.
Actually, you got it.
One try.
Ah, OK.
So I should be saying you got it in one try, right?
Let's rerun all the tests again, just to double check that.
So I had a little English typo there.
All right.
So now I think what I'm expecting here has a problem.
Let's see.
Oh, interesting, though, we now only have two failed tests.
OK, I'll take it.
So let's jump in to this test.
You got it.
Three tries.
Yeah, we should be saying you got it in three tries, right?
And I'm going to run all the tests yet again.
All right.
Getting pretty close, getting pretty close.
So now we need to address the word tribe versus tribes, right?
So again, if the number is greater than one than we looks like, we want to return the word tries.
If it's one, then we want to just return the word try, right?
So let's see how we can do that.
Come over here to the guest method again.
So what I think I'm inclined to do here is to introduce another string.
Make a string.
Call it something like try text is probably what we called it in the previous implementation of this
anyway.
So just as I think we did in the previous version of this application, I think we used a ternary operator
to basically just say, if the counter is one, then return the word, try otherwise return the word
tries.
I think that's I think that's what we did.
So here, let's see what that looks like.
Let's see if counter equals one.
And we're using a ternary here.
So we're getting into the question mark.
If counter equals one, then return the word try.
Else return.
The word tries.
OK.
So yeah, I think that's all we need there.
And then we will replace this hardcoded word.
Try with a string, which would be a percent S. And then that'll just be an additional parameter to
pass in, which is the try text.
Like so I think that would get it.
So let's run the tests again and see what we get this time.
OK.
Only one failing now.
Let's see it expected.
You got it, and instead it got a you got it in four tries, which is probably correct.
So let's jump in to that test and probably we just need to update it.
So this one is in one two three four guesses.
Yep.
So we just need to update this.
You got it in four tries.
All right.
And let's we run all the tests again.
Hey, beautiful, seven tests.
Everything's passing, looking very good, huh?
All right, so looks like we've got some good stuff working here.
Maybe let's do a quick review of what's going on now in the actual guessing game code.
Some of the flip back over there.
And let me minimize this and look at that.
It's really quite short, isn't it?
So.
Yeah, I mean, we're really not doing a whole lot here.
So when we create an instance of the guessing game, we are creating an initializing a random number
right there in line and this counter?
OK.
And that's going to happen whenever we create a new guessing game instance, right?
And then whenever we call the guess method here, we will increase the counter.
And then if the counter is equal to four and the thing the number that you're guessing doesn't match
the random number, then you'll get this message.
Now here's a problem we're hard coding the number of tries, right?
We're hard coding that.
So we're probably going to want to make a test that's going to fix that.
But we'll do that in the next lesson.
We won't do that here.
Let's see.
And here we are formatting our try text to determine whether or not it should use the singular or plural
of try.
And then we're also formatting the winning message.
So, yeah, we're going to probably want to format a losing message.
And then here we are, returning whatever we need to return, and then we've got what's generally referred
to as a getter method.
And all this does is just return the value of this field here.
So, yeah, I mean, it's actually simpler.
We've got just about the same amount of functionality that we had in the previous implementation or
close to it.
We might be forgetting a few things I don't recall, but we're pretty close, but much simpler code
overall, and nothing here is extraneous whatsoever.
Now, one reason why this is probably so much simpler than I think the previous implementation was,
is because it's focused purely on just the game logic.
There is no interaction with the console and waiting for, you know, accepting input from a user or
anything like that.
If we wanted to do that, that would be done in another class that would then interact with this one.
And I think that might be a good exercise for us to do in the future.
Just so you can see the difference between doing a tightly integrated simple application like this all
in one class versus splitting it up into a couple of classes.
All right.
But anyway, let's close this out for now, and we'll pick up where we left off in the next lesson and
we'll fix this message.
And I've got a couple other ideas for some additional features that we could consider implementing as
well.
So I'll see you there.